---
layout: post
title: Problem Areas in the Cloud
date: 2016-01-22 01:41
author: irwinium
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
The Microsoft Developer Network has some really good resources on Cloud Technologies.
In their Patterns and Practices site, they feature a section called, "<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn589772.aspx" target="_blank">Problem Areas in the Cloud</a>".

I think it's a good way to bring persons exploring the underlying features of Cloud Technologies into the thick of things.

The P&amp;P site lists these areas:
<ul>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Availability</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Data Management</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Design and Implementation </span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Management and Monitoring</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Messaging</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Performance and Scalability</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Resiliency</span></li>
	<li><span style="font-weight:400;">Security</span></li>
</ul>
It spends time describing the problems associated with the categories and possible patterns that can be used to approach how to solve them.

In building out applications over the last few years, at Teleios we've had to consider and treat with quite a few of these areas as a hosted service provider. It's where I learnt about the use of queue's for reliable messaging, using bulk-insert mechanisms for highly transactional databases and building solutions with a set of interacting services to reduce coupling and allow greater sanity when troubleshooting.

Thus, when introducing these areas to class, we spent time discussing those problems at length and what could be done to mitigate them from a real-world perspective.

During the class where we presented these topics, a bit of time was spent looking at general Cloud OS architectural concerns. In hindsight, those two areas would have been better served as separate points of discussion.

&nbsp;
