---
title: "Hello World 2.0"
date: "2018-04-10"
categories: 
  - "advocacy"
tags: 
  - "conferences"
  - "ict-pro-tt"
---

Hey,

Last year, I saw this:

https://twitter.com/ICTProTT/status/935113868044587008

And I thought, "Aye, I would love to contribute to that!" So, I sent a session proposal and it was accepted!

Now, I get to join an [impressive lineup](http://ictprott.com/conference-tracks/) of my peers and share on technologies I find to be exciting, relevant and impactful. I'll be talking about topics I've been working with for a while now, including chat-bots, AI, language understanding and other cloud services.

What's also groovy is that for this week, there's a pretty sweet discount on attendance:

_Registrants can save 40% on attendance. All Access tickets will be priced at $2495 TTD + VAT and a 1 Day Pass at $1495 TTD + VAT. This means that registrants can get a Full Access ticket for less than the cost of a regularly priced 1 Day Pass._

You can get more details of the conference [here](http://ictprott.com/).

I saw the guys at Microsoft Build do this, and I loved the idea, so I'm doing a version of it here, it's a "Convince Your Boss" template that's amazing:

**Convince Your Boss!**

_Dear <Insert Manager/Boss/Supervisor Name>_

_I'm really glad that we've been exploring ways for me to stay current with all the new technologies that could significantly make how we work more efficient, robust and competitive. I think I've found a place that helps us advance those goals._

_In May, the signature gathering of ICT minds in TT and the region is happening, it's called ICT Pro TT and it looks amazing. There'll be talks from local luminaries, researchers and professionals in the ICT space, talking on Cloud, BI, AI and Leadership._ 

_They'll be joined by award winning professors, international speakers and representatives from IBM, Google and Microsoft who will share a breadth of experience and expertise in some of the same areas we are considering for our next steps._

_But one of the best reasons for me to attend is that this will provide a place for me to find and mingle with the community of seekers in our local ICT space. I want to see and hear from my peers who are actively trying to advance the nation by building great companies and organizations that are data-driven, willing to make new things and learn along the way._

_Normally, we'd have to consider the expense of travel, accommodation and other amenities to access all this goodness in one space. ICT Pro TT helps remove all that and brings the value here. Thus, I'd love if you strongly consider having <Company Name> send me to this event._
